Date: 4 Mar 2019 15:44:08 -0500
From: "PLOS ONE" <em@editorialmanager.com>
Subject: PLOS ONE Decision: Revision required [PONE-D-18-36207] - [EMID:0915694dfd7c0c15]
To: "Jussi Toivonen" <jupito@iki.fi>
Reply-To: "PLOS ONE" <plosone@plos.org>
Sender: em.pone.0.61ac96.b12060e5@editorialmanager.com

PONE-D-18-36207
Machine learning of prostate MRI: towards improved non-invasive prostate cancer
characterization
PLOS ONE

Dear Mr. Toivonen,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PLOS ONE. After careful
consideration, we feel that it has merit but does not fully meet PLOS
ONE's publication criteria as it currently stands. Therefore, we invite you to
submit a revised version of the manuscript that addresses the points raised
during the review process.

Specifically, please address the comments regarding feature selection and model
development, and as Reviewer 1 request, connect your findings to previous
research in this area. 

We would appreciate receiving your revised manuscript by Apr 18 2019 11:59PM.
When you are ready to submit your revision, log on to
https://www.editorialmanager.com/pone/ and select the 'Submissions Needing
Revision' folder to locate your manuscript file.

If you would like to make changes to your financial disclosure, please include
your updated statement in your cover letter.

To enhance the reproducibility of your results, we recommend that if applicable
you deposit your laboratory protocols in protocols.io, where a protocol can be
assigned its own identifier (DOI) such that it can be cited independently in the
future. For instructions see:
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/s/submission-guidelines#loc-laboratory-protocols

Please include the following items when submitting your revised manuscript:
- A rebuttal letter that responds to each point raised by the academic editor
and reviewer(s). This letter should be uploaded as separate file and labeled
'Response to Reviewers'.
- A marked-up copy of your manuscript that highlights changes made to the
original version. This file should be uploaded as separate file and labeled
'Revised Manuscript with Track Changes'.
- An unmarked version of your revised paper without tracked changes. This file
should be uploaded as separate file and labeled 'Manuscript'.

We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Kind regards,

Kathryn L. Penney
Academic Editor
PLOS ONE

Journal Requirements:

1. When submitting your revision, we need you to address these additional
requirements.

Please ensure that your manuscript meets PLOS ONE's style requirements,
including those for file naming. The PLOS ONE style templates can be found at
http://www.journals.plos.org/plosone/s/file?id=wjVg/PLOSOne_formatting_sample_main_body.pdf
and
http://www.journals.plos.org/plosone/s/file?id=ba62/PLOSOne_formatting_sample_title_authors_affiliations.pdf

2. We note that you have stated that you will provide repository information for
your data at acceptance. Should your manuscript be accepted for publication, we
will hold it until you provide the relevant accession numbers or DOIs necessary
to access your data. If you wish to make changes to your Data Availability
statement, please describe these changes in your cover letter and we will update
your Data Availability statement to reflect the information you provide.




[Note: HTML markup is below. Please do not edit.]

Reviewers' comments:

Reviewer's Responses to Questions

Comments to the Author

1. Is the manuscript technically sound, and do the data support the conclusions?

The manuscript must describe a technically sound piece of scientific research
with data that supports the conclusions. Experiments must have been conducted
rigorously, with appropriate controls, replication, and sample sizes. The
conclusions must be drawn appropriately based on the data presented.

Reviewer #1: Yes

Reviewer #2: Yes
 
------------------------------------------------

2. Has the statistical analysis been performed appropriately and rigorously?

Reviewer #1: Yes

Reviewer #2: Yes
 
------------------------------------------------

3. Have the authors made all data underlying the findings in their manuscript
fully available?

The PLOS Data policy requires authors to make all data underlying the findings
described in their manuscript fully available without restriction, with rare
exception (please refer to the Data Availability Statement in the manuscript PDF
file). The data should be provided as part of the manuscript or its supporting
information, or deposited to a public repository. For example, in addition to
summary statistics, the data points behind means, medians and variance measures
should be available. If there are restrictions on publicly sharing
data -- e.g. participant privacy or use of data from a third party -- those must
be specified.

Reviewer #1: Yes

Reviewer #2: Yes
 
------------------------------------------------

4. Is the manuscript presented in an intelligible fashion and written in
standard English?

PLOS ONE does not copyedit accepted manuscripts, so the language in submitted
articles must be clear, correct, and unambiguous. Any typographical or
grammatical errors should be corrected at revision, so please note any specific
errors here.

Reviewer #1: Yes

Reviewer #2: Yes
 
------------------------------------------------

5. Review Comments to the Author

Reviewer #1:

In the manuscript "Machine learning of prostate MRI: towards improved
non-invasive prostate cancer characterization", Toivonen et al. develop and
evaluate a radiomics-based classifier system for prediction of prostate cancer
Gleason score. The authors use radiomics features from T2-weighted imaging
(T2w), diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), and T2-mapping (T2) from patients that
subsequently underwent prostatectomy. The DWI data sets were post-processed
using monoexponential and kurtosis models.

The paper is well written, and the approach is detailed sufficiently. As a
general comment on the recent surge of published radiomics papers, while each
paper identifies significant radiomics features, no effort has been made to
connect any of these features with previously published ones. This manuscript is
no exception. More than 1000 features are extracted from four types of images.
There are long lists of variables for each of the four image types; it is not
clear what will be the impact of these findings for future applications. In
addition, the data are acquired in a single institution with the same magnet and
imaging sequences. Again, it is not clear how applicable the identified features
will be in other circumstances. The models are not validated in an independent
dataset.

The authors analyze a very rich and unique dataset. For instance, the DWI data
contains 12 b-values. In my view, there are missed opportunities to address
important questions, such as: is there an added value for mapping T2; which
three b-values result in apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) with the highest
correlation with Gleason Score.

Figure 1 is misleading; there is little correspondence between the figure legend
and the content. The Field of View, displayed on T2-w and DWI are different. The
labels of the radiomics features are shifted.

Figure 2: Please, list the abbreviations. Why the RP lesions appear differently
on the different sequences?


Reviewer #2:

The manuscript showed that a machine learning-based model on imaging features
from multiple MRI sequences provides improved predictive power to discriminate
tumors with 3+3 vs >3+3 Gleason scores in prostate cancer. This paper was well
written and authors performed several tests to show the superiority of the
proposed method. I would suggest to accept this paper if authors can address the
following issues.

1. It is not clear why authors extracted imaging features in 2D slices. Please
explain why you did use 3D volume images.

2. Shape-based features were not used. Do you think that shape-based features
are not relevant to Gleason scores. Please mention this in the paper.

3. Is there any correlation in imaging features between different image types?

4. Table 5 shows the improved performance when imaging features from different
image types were combined. The models including all features are not practical
in terms of interpretation and model building. What are the results if 18
statistical features and top 1% features were combined.
 
------------------------------------------------

While revising your submission, please upload your figure files to the Preflight
Analysis and Conversion Engine (PACE) digital diagnostic tool,
https://pacev2.apexcovantage.com/. PACE helps ensure that figures meet PLOS
requirements. To use PACE, you must first register as a user. Registration is
free. Then, login and navigate to the UPLOAD tab, where you will find detailed
instructions on how to use the tool. If you encounter any issues or have any
questions when using PACE, please email us at figures@plos.org. Please note that
Supporting Information files do not need this step.
